docs: add ocpp for e4.4.18 (#1826)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/modules/ocpp_protocol.md

# OCPP Protocol Gateway

## Protocol Introduction

[OCPP (Open Charge Point Protocol)](https://www.openchargealliance.org/)
is a communication protocol used between Charge Points and a Central System to
enable the monitoring and control of EV (Electric Vehicle) charging sessions.

Since e4.4.18, EMQX has implemented the `emqx_ocpp` plugin based on the
[OCCP-J 1.6](https://www.openchargealliance.org/protocols/ocpp-16/) standard, providing the ability
to connect to Charge Point devices.

::: note

> The current implementation is only provided as a plugin and does not support modules at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this version, the OCPP Protocol Gateway functions as a plugin rather than a module. 
```

:::

## Quick Start

All configurations of the OCPP plugin are located in the `plugins/emqx_ocpp.conf` file under the

> EMQX etc directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EMQX `etc` directory.
```

Just execute the following command to start the OCPP plugin with default configuration file:
```bash
emqx_ctl plugins load emqx_ocpp
```

### Connect to OCPP Gateway

After the plugin is successfully loaded, you can use [ocpp-go](https://github.com/lorenzodonini/ocpp-go)
to simulate a Charge Point for connection testing.

Please follow the instructions provided in the ocpp-go documentation to complete the compilation
first, and then execute the following command to connect to EMQX's OCPP gateway.

> Note: `<host>` needs to be modified to the address of your actual EMQX node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Please replace`<host>` with the address of your EMQX node.
```

```bash
CLIENT_ID=chargePointSim CENTRAL_SYSTEM_URL=ws://<host>:33033/ocpp go run example/1.6/cp/*.go
```

> ## ClientInfo and connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Client and Connection
```

> The OCPP gateway only accept the clients by Websocket, as defined in the OCPP-J 1.6 protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EMQX OCPP gateway only supports client connections via WebSocket, as defined in the OCPP-J 1.6 protocol.
```

> Once the connection is established successfully, EMQX treats it as a standard client. This means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the connection is established, EMQX treats the OCPP client as a standard client. This means
```

that you can manage this client through Client ID on Dashboard/HTTP-API/CLI.

The mapping of client information is as follows:
- Client ID: The unique identifier of the Charge Point.

> - Username: Obtained from HTTP Basic authentication provided by the Charge Point during connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Username: Can be obtained from HTTP Basic authentication provided by the Charge Point during connection.
```

> - Password: Also obtained from HTTP Basic authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Password: Can be obtained from HTTP Basic authentication.
```

### Authentication

> As mentioned in the OCPP-J 1.6 specification, Charge Points can use HTTP Basic for authentication.

Reviewer: I'd suggest to rewrite this whole paragraph as "EMQX OCPP gateway extracts the user name and password from the HTTP Basic authentication used by Charge Points (as specified in OCPP-J 1.6), and then uses EMQX's authentication system to manage the client and determine access permission."

The OCPP gateway extracts the Username and Password from it and uses EMQX's authentication system
to determine whether the client has access permission.

You can refer to [Authentication](../advanced/auth.md) for configuration.

> ## Messaging conversion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Messaging Flow
```

### Messaging from OCPP Gateway to Third-Party Services (Upstream)

The OCPP gateway facilitates the transmission of messages and events originating from the Charge Point, utilizing EMQX. This data flow, known as the **Upstream** process, ensures seamless communication between the charging infrastructure and the management system.

For instance, by setting a default upstream topic using the following configuration, the EMQX OCPP gateway will publish all Charge Point messages to this topic. During the messaging process, the placeholders `${cid}` (Charge Point ID) and `${action}` (Message Name) will be replaced with their respective actual values.

```hcl
## plugins/emqx_ocpp.conf
##OCPP gateway will publish all Charge Point messages to this topic.
ocpp.upstream.topic = ocpp/cp/${cid}/${action}

## Supports overriding the default topic by message name
ocpp.upstream.topic.BootNotification = ocpp/cp/${cid}/Notify/${action}
```

The message content (Payload) is a JSON string with a fixed pattern, which includes the following fields:

| Field             | Type        | Mandatory | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |

> | `MessageTypeId`   | MessageType | Y       | Define the type of Message, optional values:  `Call`, `CallResult`, or `CallError ` <!--这里我看返回的是1,2，3，需要说明下这些字段和1,2，3 的关系--> |

Author: Sorry, it was my mistake. Its enumeration values should be 2, 3, and 4; representing Call, CallResult, and CallError respectively.

| `UniqueId`        | String      | Y       | Must be the same ID  as carried in the `call` request so the receiver can match the request and result |
| `Action`          | String      | N       | Name of OCPP message, for example, authorize |
| `ErrorCode`       | ErrorType   | N       | Optional, but required for `CallError` messages, |
| `ErrorDescription` | String      | N       | Error details |
| `Payload`         | Bytes       | N       | Payload field with the serialized data of the OCPP message in protobuf format |

> <!--can we also add a returned example here?-->

Author: I think it is necessary for understanding the Upstream messages.
